import Article from "@/components/article";

import speedrunImage from "@/public/images/speedrunning_college.webp";

export const meta = {
  title: "Speedrunning College",
  href: "/blog/post/speedrunning-college",
  description: "Or how I'm completing a 4-year degree in 3 semesters.",
  image: speedrunImage,
  imageAlt: "spreadsheet of college courses broken down by semester",
  date: "May 23, 2023",
  datetime: "2023-05-23",
  tags: ["College"],
};

<Article meta={meta} >

## Why?

By far the most frequent question whenever someone hears about me graduating in
just 3 semesters is why? Why not just stay 4 years and party? And fair enough, I
could do that and might have more fun. Graduating early is a fun challenge
though, and staying longer is too easy.

## Step 1: High School with 59 credits

With a few exceptions, UNC Chapel Hill requires 120 credits to graduate, which
translates to 7 semesters at the maximum 18 credits each semester. Of course,
there are two ways to overcome this limit: transfer/exam credits and overloads.
Through a combination of 12 AP exams and 5 [NCSSM](https://ncssm.edu) classes
that count for transfer credit, I received 59 credits over 19 classes.

Thankfully, UNC is more than willing to accept all of these credits, and only
has limits about how they can apply to gen ed and major requirements, not an
overall limit. Luckily, these other requirements just barely didn't apply, so my
high school credits were pretty well maximized.

## Step 2: The Art of Math

Originally, I was a computer science major, but then UNC decided to make it the
[only application-only major](https://cs.unc.edu/undergraduate/cs-admissions/)
in the College of Arts and Sciences. I wasn't willing to procrastinate a year
only to need a new major, so then I found the brilliance of the mathematics B.A.

Yes, UNC really does have a Bachelors of Arts in Mathematics. It's almost the
same as the B.S., but only has major requirements of 30 hours. Prior to
discovering it, my goal was 2 years with a CS degree, but I planned some more
and found out how to skip another semester.

## Step 3: How Hard is 20 Credits, Anyway?

High school credits and an easy major only got me so far. Starting summer school
before even stepping on campus and exempting my language requirement (la escuela
piensa que puedo hablar espa√±ol) allowed me finish off almost all first year
requirements in the first semester.

I wanted to be done with all the gen eds in the first year though and I hatched
a plan to knock them out in a single semester. After enough persuading my
advisor, I was granted an overload to 20 credits, allowing me six 3-credit and
two 1-credit courses needed to finish all gen eds, once and for all.

It was during this semester that I also decided to work two jobs, adding another
30 hours a week to my courseload. It wasn't that bad, or at least that's what I
tell myself. Frequently I had less than an hour of free time each day.

## Takeaways

I have too much time.

Will I regret this? Maybe, but only time will tell. I've at least enjoyed the
challenge of it all and it's kept me less bored than I otherwise would be.

</Article>
